=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

bcachefs -- manage, create, monitor, and debug bcachefs filesystems

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bcachefs> [I<options>] B<SUBCOMMAND> [I<options>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

bcachefs is an advanced, "next-generation" Linux filesystem with an emphasis on
reliability and robustness. It has a long list of features, including
copy-on-write for all data, checksumming, multi-device RAID support and tiering,
caching, compression, native encryption, and more. It also exhibits good
performance and latency properties -- that either match, or exceed, existing
competitors.

The L<bcachefs(8)> tool is used to manage and create bcachefs
devices, from formatting them to debugging them. B<bcachefs> contains many
suboptions for various features exposed by the filesystem. A summary of these
options, and other notes (including links to other manuals) are below.

For those who are new to B<bcachefs> or advanced multi-device filesystems like
it, please check out the included L<bcachefs-tutorial(8)> to get an idea of how
you might use it in various ways.

=head1 OPTIONS

These commands I<only> apply to the top level B<bcachefs> tool, not to the
various subcommands. Please see the COMMANDS section below for more information
on each subcommand.

=over

=item B<--help>

Emit the bcachefs help page, including a list of all supported subcommands with
a brief summary.

=back

=head1 SUBCOMMANDS

Each of the following subcommands are supported by the B<bcachefs> tool, each
with its own unique set of sub-options. Please see the respective man pages for
each subcommand for a complete list of options. Below, only a brief summary of
the command is given.

=over

=item B<L<assemble|bcachefs-assemble(8)>>

See L<bcachefs-assemble(8)> for more.

=item B<L<device|bcachefs-device(8)>>

See L<bcachefs-device(8)> for more.

=item B<L<format|bcachefs-format(8)>>

Format one (or many) devices with bcachefs data structures. You must do this
before creating a volume.

Note that formatting of a device may also be done using the L<mkfs(8)> tool with
the B<-t bcachefs> option, or, equivalently, using the L<mkfs.bcachefs(2)>
utility.

See L<bcachefs-format(8)> for more.

=item B<L<fs|bcachefs-fs(8)>>

See L<bcachefs-fs(8)> for more.

=item B<L<fsck|bcachefs-fsck(8)>>

Perform file system check and repair on a bcachefs volume.

See L<bcachefs-fsck(8)> for more.

=item B<L<incremental|bcachefs-incremental(8)>>

See L<bcachefs-incremental(8)> for more.

=item B<L<migrate|bcachefs-migrate(8)>>

See L<bcachefs-migrate(8)> for more.

=item B<L<probe|bcachefs-probe(8)>>

Return the UUID of a device, only if the device is identified as a
bcachefs-formatted volume.

B<NOTE>: This command is temporary, and used primarily for L<udev(7)> scripts,
for creating device-UUID-symlinks under /dev/disk/by-uuid. You should not
normally need to use this command. In the future, support for bcachefs
superblocks will be added to L<blkid(8)>, and this command will be deprecated,
and removed.

See L<bcachefs-probe(8)> for more.

=item B<L<register|bcachefs-register(8)>>

Register bcachefs-formatted devices with the kernel.

See L<bcachefs-register(8)> for more.

=item B<L<run|bcachefs-run(8)>>

See L<bcachefs-run(8)> for more.

=item B<L<stop|bcachefs-stop(8)>>

See L<bcachefs-stop(8)> for more.

=item B<L<show-super|bcachefs-show-super(8)>>

See L<bcachefs-show-super(8)> for more.

=item B<help>

Emit the bcachefs help page, including a list of all supported subcommands with
a brief summary.

This is functionally equivalent to using the top-level B<--help> argument to
L<bcachefs(8)>.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Yes. Current known bugs include:

=over

=item B<Compression does not appear to actually reduce disk space usage>

Due to a deficiency in the disk space accounting code, B<bcachefs> compression
currently does not appear to save disk space when enabled. While individual
blocks I<will> be compressed before being written to disk, the disk space usage
of the underlying drive will reflect the original size of the data. In short,
compression will not actually allow you to save space, or write more data.

This deficiency will be lifted in the future.

=item B<Slow mount times>

B<bcachefs> currently walks all metadata at mount time. While this may not be
noticeable on small/medium sized file systems, users of large filesystems and
rotating disks can expect slow mount times.

This deficiency will be lifted in the future.

=back

bcachefs online documentation is located here, where you may also report bugs:
L<https://example.com>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bcachefs-tutorial(8)>
